demos/vue/README.md, before:

# Slickgrid-Vue - Bootstrap 5 Demo with i18n

## Important Note
Please note that some of the npm packages installed in these demos are **optional** and are installed **only** for demo purposes. If you don't need the feature then don't install it (remove it from your `package.json`) and you'll end up with a smaller production build.

> **Note** we use Bootstrap UI for our demo but any other UI framework would work too (we use it with Quasar on a project).

Again the following dependencies are totally **optional**

| Package Name | Version | Description |
| ------------ | ------- | ----------- |
| [@slickgrid-universal/composite-editor-component](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/composite-editor-component) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/composite-editor-component.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/composite-editor-component) | Composite Editor Modal Component |
| [@slickgrid-universal/custom-tooltip-plugin](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/custom-tooltip-plugin) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/custom-tooltip-plugin.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/custom-tooltip-plugin) | Custom Tooltip Plugin |
| [@slickgrid-universal/excel-export](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/excel-export) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/excel-export.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/excel-export) | Export to Excel Service (xls/xlsx) |
| [@slickgrid-universal/text-export](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/text-export) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/text-export.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/text-export) | Export to Text File Service (csv/txt) |
| [@slickgrid-universal/graphql](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/graphql) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/graphql.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/graphql) | GraphQL Query Service (support Filter/Sort/Pagination) |
| [@slickgrid-universal/odata](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/odata) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/odata.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/odata) | OData Query Service (support Filter/Sort/Pagination) |
| [@slickgrid-universal/rxjs-observable](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/rxjs-observable) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/rxjs-observable.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/rxjs-observable) | RxJS Observable Service Wrapper |
---

### Install and Start Demo
```bash
git clone https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos
cd bootstrap5-i18n-demo
npm install # OR yarn install
npm dev     # OR yarn start
```

Then open your browser to
```html
http://localhost:7070
```

### Build Demo
```bash
run build # OR yarn run build
```

Commit message:

docs: add link to Slickgrid-Vue-Demos repo

demos/vue/README.md, after:

# Slickgrid-Vue - Bootstrap 5 Demo with i18n

## Important Note
Please note that some of the npm packages installed in these demos are **optional** and are installed **only** for demo purposes. If you don't need the feature then don't install it (remove it from your `package.json`) and you'll end up with a smaller production build.

> **Note** we use Bootstrap UI for our demo but any other UI framework would work too (we use it with Quasar on a project).

Again the following dependencies are totally **optional**

| Package Name | Version | Description |
| ------------ | ------- | ----------- |
| [@slickgrid-universal/composite-editor-component](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/composite-editor-component) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/composite-editor-component.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/composite-editor-component) | Composite Editor Modal Component |
| [@slickgrid-universal/custom-tooltip-plugin](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/custom-tooltip-plugin) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/custom-tooltip-plugin.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/custom-tooltip-plugin) | Custom Tooltip Plugin |
| [@slickgrid-universal/excel-export](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/excel-export) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/excel-export.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/excel-export) | Export to Excel Service (xls/xlsx) |
| [@slickgrid-universal/text-export](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/text-export) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/text-export.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/text-export) | Export to Text File Service (csv/txt) |
| [@slickgrid-universal/graphql](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/graphql) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/graphql.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/graphql) | GraphQL Query Service (support Filter/Sort/Pagination) |
| [@slickgrid-universal/odata](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/odata) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/odata.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/odata) | OData Query Service (support Filter/Sort/Pagination) |
| [@slickgrid-universal/rxjs-observable](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/tree/master/packages/rxjs-observable) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@slickgrid-universal/rxjs-observable.svg?color=forest)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@slickgrid-universal/rxjs-observable) | RxJS Observable Service Wrapper |
---

### Install and Start Demo

You can get this working demo by cloning our [Slickgrid-Vue-Demos](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-vue-demos/) which is updated on every new release.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos
cd bootstrap5-i18n-demo
npm install # OR yarn install
npm dev     # OR yarn start
```

Then open your browser to
```html
http://localhost:7070
```

### Build Demo
```bash
run build # OR yarn run build
```
