frameworks/angular-slickgrid/docs/column-functionalities/filters/input-filter.md, before:

#### Index
- [Usage](#ui-usage)
- [Filtering with Localization](#filtering-with-localization-i18n)
- [Filter Complex Object](#how-to-filter-complex-objects)
- [Update Filters Dynamically](#update-filters-dynamically)
- [Query Different Field (Filter/Sort)](#query-different-field)
- [Dynamic Query Field](#dynamic-query-field)
- [Debounce/Throttle Text Search (wait for user to stop typing before filtering)](#debouncethrottle-text-search-wait-for-user-to-stop-typing-before-filtering)
- [Ignore Locale Accent in Text Filter/Sorting](#ignore-locale-accent-in-text-filtersorting)
- [Custom Filter Predicate](#custom-filter-predicate)
- [Filter Shortcuts](#filter-shortcuts)

### Description
Input filter is the default filter when enabling filters.

### Demo
[Demo Page](https://ghiscoding.github.io/Angular-Slickgrid/#/clientside) / [Demo Component](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/blob/master/frameworks/angular-slickgrid/src/demos/examples/grid-clientside.component.ts)

### UI Usage
All column types support the following operators: (`>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`, `<>`, `!=`, `=`, `==`, `*`), range filters can also have 1 of these options (`rangeInclusive` or `rangeExclusive`, the inclusive is default)
Example:
- Number type
  - `>100` => bigger than 100
  - `<>100` => not include number 100
  - `15..44` => between 15 and 44 (you can also provide option `rangeInclusive` or `rangeExclusive`, inclusive is default)
- Date types
  - `>=2001-01-01` => bigger or equal than date `2001-01-01`
  - `<02/28/17` => smaller than date `02/28/17`
  - `2001-01-01..2002-02-22` => between 2001-01-01 and 2002-02-22
- String type
  - `<>John` => not containing the sub-string `John`
  - `!=John` => not equal to the text `John` (note that this is **not** equivalent to `<>`)
  - `John*` => starts with the sub-string `John`
  - `*Doe` => ends with the sub-string `Doe`
  - `ab..ef` => anything included between "af" and "ef"
    - refer to the ASCII table for each character assigned index
  - `!= ` => get defined only data and exclude any `undefined`, `null` or empty string `''`
     - notice the empty string in the search value `' '`

Note that you could do the same functionality with a Compound Filter.

#### Note
For filters to work properly (default is `string`), make sure to provide a `FieldType` (type is against the dataset, not the Formatter), for example on a Date Filters, we can set the `FieldType` of dateUtc/date (from dataset) can use an extra option of `filterSearchType` to let user filter more easily. For example, with a column having a "UTC Date" coming from the dataset but has a `formatter: Formatters.dateUs`, you can type a date in US format `>02/28/2017`, also when dealing with UTC you have to take the time difference in consideration.

### How to use Input Filter
Simply set the flag `filterable` to True and and enable the filters in the Grid Options. Here is an example with a full column definition:
```ts
// define you columns, in this demo Effort Driven will use a Select Filter
this.columnDefinitions = [
  { id: 'title', name: 'Title', field: 'title' },
  { id: 'description', name: 'Description', field: 'description', filterable: true }
];

// you also need to enable the filters in the Grid Options
this.gridOptions = {
   enableFiltering: true
};
```

### Filtering with Localization (i18n)
When using a regular grid with a JSON dataset (that is without using Backend Service API), the filter might not working correctly on cell values that are translated (because it will try to filter against the translation key instead of the actual formatted value). So to bypass this problem, a new extra `params` was created to resolve this, you need to set `useFormatterOuputToFilter` to True and the filter will, has the name suggest, use the output of the Formatter to filter against. Example:
```ts
// define you columns, in this demo Effort Driven will use a Select Filter
this.columnDefinitions = [
  { id: 'title', name: 'Title', field: 'id',
    headerKey: 'TITLE',
    formatter: this.taskTranslateFormatter,  // <-- this could be a custom Formatter or the built-in translateFormatter
    filterable: true,
    params: { useFormatterOuputToFilter: true } // <-- set this flag to True
  },
  { id: 'description', name: 'Description', field: 'description', filterable: true }
];

// you also need to enable the filters in the Grid Options
this.gridOptions = {
   enableFiltering: true
};

// using a custom translate Formatter OR translateFormatter
taskTranslateFormatter: Formatter = (row, cell, value, columnDef, dataContext) => {
  return this.i18n.tr('TASK_X', { x: value });
}
```

### How to Filter Complex Objects?
You can filter complex objects using the dot (.) notation inside the `field` property defined in your Columns Definition.

For example, let say that we have this dataset
```ts
const dataset = [
 { item: 'HP Desktop', buyer: { id: 1234, address: { street: '123 belleville', zip: 123456 }},
 { item: 'Lenovo Mouse', buyer: { id: 456, address: { street: '456 hollywood blvd', zip: 789123 }}
];
```

We can now filter the zip code from the buyer's address using this filter:
```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    // the zip is a property of a complex object which is under the "buyer" property
    // it will use the "field" property to explode (from "." notation) and find the child value
    id: 'zip', name: 'ZIP', field: 'buyer.address.zip', filterable: true
   // id: 'street',  ...
];
```

### Update Filters Dynamically
You can update/change the Filters dynamically (on the fly) via the `updateFilters` method from the `FilterService`. Note that calling this method will override all filters and replace them with the new array of filters provided. For example, you could update the filters from a button click or a select dropdown list with predefined filter set.

##### View
```html
<button class="btn btn-default btn-sm" data-test="set-dynamic-filter" click.delegate="setFiltersDynamically()">
    Set Filters Dynamically
</button>

<angular-slickgrid gridId="grid1"
  [columns]="columnDefinitions"
  [options]="gridOptions"
  [dataset]="dataset"
  (onAngularGridCreated)="angularGridReady($event.detail)">
</angular-slickgrid>
```

##### Component
```ts
export class Example {
  angularGrid: AngularGridInstance;

  angularGridReady(angularGrid: AngularGridInstance) {
    this.angularGrid = angularGrid;
  }

  setFiltersDynamically() {
    // we can Set Filters Dynamically (or different filters) afterward through the FilterService
    this.angularGrid.filterService.updateFilters([
      { columnId: 'duration', searchTerms: [2, 25, 48, 50] },
      { columnId: 'complete', searchTerms: [95], operator: '<' },
      { columnId: 'effort-driven', searchTerms: [true] },
      { columnId: 'start', operator: '>=', searchTerms: ['2001-02-28'] },
    ]);
  }
```

#### Extra Arguments
The `updateFilters` method has 2 extra arguments:
- 2nd argument, defaults to true, is to emit a filter changed event (the GridStateService uses this event)
  - optional and defaults to true `updateFilters([], true)`
- 3rd argument is to trigger a backend query (when using a Backend Service like OData/GraphQL), this could be useful when using updateFilters & updateSorting and you wish to only send the backend query once.
  - optional and defaults to true `updateFilters([], true, true)`

### Query Different Field
Sometime you want to display a certain column (let say `countryName`) but you want to filter from a different column (say `countryCode`), in such use case you can use 1 of these 4 optional
- `queryField`: this will affect both the Filter & Sort
- `queryFieldFilter`: this will affect only the Filter
- `queryFieldSorter`: this will affect only the Sort
- `queryFieldNameGetterFn`: dynamically change column to do Filter/Sort (see below)

### Dynamic Query Field
What if you a field that you only know which field to query only at run time and depending on the item object (`dataContext`)?
We can defined a `queryFieldNameGetterFn` callback that will be executed on each row when Filtering and/or Sorting.
```ts
queryFieldNameGetterFn: (dataContext) => {
  // do your logic and return the field name will be queried
  // for example let say that we query "profitRatio" when we have a profit else we query "lossRatio"
  return dataContext.profit > 0 ? 'profitRatio' : 'lossRatio';
},
```

### Debounce/Throttle Text Search (wait for user to stop typing before filtering)
When having a large dataset, it might be useful to add a debounce delay so that typing multiple character successively won't affect the search time, you can use the `filterTypingDebounce` grid option for that use case. What it will do is simply wait for the user to finish typing before executing the filter condition, you typically don't want to put this number too high and I find that between 250-500 is a good number.
```ts
this.gridOptions = {
   filterTypingDebounce: 250,
};
```

### Ignore Locale Accent in Text Filter/Sorting
You can ignore latin accent (or any other language accent) in text filter via the Grid Option `ignoreAccentOnStringFilterAndSort` flag (default is false)
```ts
this.gridOptions = {
   ignoreAccentOnStringFilterAndSort: true,
};
```

### Custom Filter Predicate
You can provide a custom predicate by using the `filterPredicate` when defining your `filter`, the callback will provide you with 2 arguments (`dataContext` and `searchFilterArgs`). The `searchFilterArgs` has a type of `SearchColumnFilter` interface which will provide you more info about the filter itself (like parsed operator, search terms, column definition, column id and type as well). You can see a live demo at [Example 14](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-universal/#/example14) and the associated [lines](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/blob/1a2c2ff4b72ac3f51b30b1d3d101e84ed9ec9ece/examples/vite-demo-vanilla-bundle/src/examples/example14.ts#L153-L178) of code.

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'title', name: 'Title', field: 'title', sortable: true,
    filterable: true,
    filter: {
      model: Filters.inputText,
      // you can use your own custom filter predicate when built-in filters aren't working for you
      // for example the example below will function similarly to an SQL LIKE to answer this SO: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/78471412/angular-slickgrid-filter
      filterPredicate: (dataContext, searchFilterArgs) => {
        const searchVals = (searchFilterArgs.searchTerms || []) as SearchTerm[];
        if (searchVals?.length) {
          const columnId = searchFilterArgs.columnId;
          const searchVal = searchVals[0] as string;
          const likeMatches = searchVal.split('%');
          if (likeMatches.length > 3) {
            // for matches like "%Ta%10%" will return text that starts with "Ta" and ends with "10" (e.g. "Task 10", "Task 110", "Task 210")
            const [_, start, end] = likeMatches;
            return dataContext[columnId].startsWith(start) && dataContext[columnId].endsWith(end);
          } else if (likeMatches.length > 2) {
            // for matches like "%Ta%10" will return text that starts with "Ta" and contains "10" (e.g. "Task 10", "Task 100", "Task 101")
            const [_, start, contain] = likeMatches;
            return dataContext[columnId].startsWith(start) && dataContext[columnId].includes(contain);
          }
          // for anything else we'll simply expect a Contains
          return dataContext[columnId].includes(searchVal);
        }
        // if we fall here then the value is not filtered out
        return true;
      },
    },
  },
];
```

The custom filter predicate above was to answer a Stack Overflow question and will work similarly to an SQL LIKE matcher (it's not perfect and probably requires more work but is enough to demo the usage of a custom filter predicate)

![image](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/assets/643976/3e77774e-3a9f-4ca4-bca7-50a033a4b48d)

### Filter Shortcuts

User can declare some Filter Shortcuts, that will be added to the Header Menu of the Column it was assigned. These shortcuts are simply a list of filter search values (e.g. Filter the Blank/Non-Blanks Values), the end user can type the same search values themselves but the shortcuts are simply meant to be quicker without having to know what to type (e.g. Filter Current Year).

 The shortcuts can be declared via an array that must include at least a `title` (or `titleKey`) a `searchTerms` array and lastly an optional `operator` can also be provided. The available properties of these shortcut is a merge of Header Menu Item interface (except `command` and `action` which are reserved and assigned internally) and of course the 3 properties mentioned above. The declaration is very similar to how we use it when declaring Grid Presets as shown below

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'country', name: 'Country', field: 'country',
    filter: {
      model: Filters.inputText,
      filterShortcuts: [
        { title: 'Blank Values', searchTerms: ['A'], operator: '<', iconCssClass: 'mdi mdi-filter-minus-outline', },
        { title: 'Non-Blank Values', searchTerms: ['A'], operator: '>', iconCssClass: 'mdi mdi-filter-plus-outline', },
      ]
    },
  },
  {
    id: 'finish', name: 'Finish', field: 'finish',
    filter: {
      model: Filters.dateRange,
      filterShortcuts: [
        {
          // using Locale translations & Tempo to calculate next 30 days
          titleKey: 'NEXT_30_DAYS',
          iconCssClass: 'mdi mdi-calendar',
          searchTerms: [tempoFormat(new Date(), 'YYYY-MM-DD'), tempoFormat(addDay(new Date(), 30), 'YYYY-MM-DD')],
        },
      ]
    },
  },
];
```

Commit message:

fix(filter): input filter empty values & save GridState/Preset

frameworks/angular-slickgrid/docs/column-functionalities/filters/input-filter.md, after:

#### Index
- [Usage](#ui-usage)
- [Filtering with Localization](#filtering-with-localization-i18n)
- [Filter Complex Object](#how-to-filter-complex-objects)
- [Filtering empty values](#filtering-empty-values)
- [Update Filters Dynamically](#update-filters-dynamically)
- [Query Different Field (Filter/Sort)](#query-different-field)
- [Dynamic Query Field](#dynamic-query-field)
- [Debounce/Throttle Text Search (wait for user to stop typing before filtering)](#debouncethrottle-text-search-wait-for-user-to-stop-typing-before-filtering)
- [Ignore Locale Accent in Text Filter/Sorting](#ignore-locale-accent-in-text-filtersorting)
- [Custom Filter Predicate](#custom-filter-predicate)
- [Filter Shortcuts](#filter-shortcuts)

### Description
Input filter is the default filter when enabling filters.

### Demo
[Demo Page](https://ghiscoding.github.io/Angular-Slickgrid/#/clientside) / [Demo Component](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/blob/master/frameworks/angular-slickgrid/src/demos/examples/grid-clientside.component.ts)

### UI Usage
All column types support the following operators: (`>`, `>=`, `<`, `<=`, `<>`, `!=`, `=`, `==`, `*`), range filters can also have 1 of these options (`rangeInclusive` or `rangeExclusive`, the inclusive is default)
Example:
- Number type
  - `>100` => bigger than 100
  - `<>100` => not include number 100
  - `15..44` => between 15 and 44 (you can also provide option `rangeInclusive` or `rangeExclusive`, inclusive is default)
- Date types
  - `>=2001-01-01` => bigger or equal than date `2001-01-01`
  - `<02/28/17` => smaller than date `02/28/17`
  - `2001-01-01..2002-02-22` => between 2001-01-01 and 2002-02-22
- String type
  - `<>John` => not containing the sub-string `John`
  - `!=John` => not equal to the text `John` (note that this is **not** equivalent to `<>`)
  - `John*` => starts with the sub-string `John`
  - `*Doe` => ends with the sub-string `Doe`
  - `ab..ef` => anything included between "af" and "ef"
    - refer to the ASCII table for each character assigned index
  - `!= ` => get defined only data and exclude any `undefined`, `null` or empty string `''`
     - notice the empty string in the search value `' '`

Note that you could do the same functionality with a Compound Filter.

#### Note
For filters to work properly (default is `string`), make sure to provide a `FieldType` (type is against the dataset, not the Formatter), for example on a Date Filters, we can set the `FieldType` of dateUtc/date (from dataset) can use an extra option of `filterSearchType` to let user filter more easily. For example, with a column having a "UTC Date" coming from the dataset but has a `formatter: Formatters.dateUs`, you can type a date in US format `>02/28/2017`, also when dealing with UTC you have to take the time difference in consideration.

### How to use Input Filter
Simply set the flag `filterable` to True and and enable the filters in the Grid Options. Here is an example with a full column definition:
```ts
// define you columns, in this demo Effort Driven will use a Select Filter
this.columnDefinitions = [
  { id: 'title', name: 'Title', field: 'title' },
  { id: 'description', name: 'Description', field: 'description', filterable: true }
];

// you also need to enable the filters in the Grid Options
this.gridOptions = {
   enableFiltering: true
};
```

### Filtering with Localization (i18n)
When using a regular grid with a JSON dataset (that is without using Backend Service API), the filter might not working correctly on cell values that are translated (because it will try to filter against the translation key instead of the actual formatted value). So to bypass this problem, a new extra `params` was created to resolve this, you need to set `useFormatterOuputToFilter` to True and the filter will, has the name suggest, use the output of the Formatter to filter against. Example:
```ts
// define you columns, in this demo Effort Driven will use a Select Filter
this.columnDefinitions = [
  { id: 'title', name: 'Title', field: 'id',
    headerKey: 'TITLE',
    formatter: this.taskTranslateFormatter,  // <-- this could be a custom Formatter or the built-in translateFormatter
    filterable: true,
    params: { useFormatterOuputToFilter: true } // <-- set this flag to True
  },
  { id: 'description', name: 'Description', field: 'description', filterable: true }
];

// you also need to enable the filters in the Grid Options
this.gridOptions = {
   enableFiltering: true
};

// using a custom translate Formatter OR translateFormatter
taskTranslateFormatter: Formatter = (row, cell, value, columnDef, dataContext) => {
  return this.i18n.tr('TASK_X', { x: value });
}
```

### How to Filter Complex Objects?
You can filter complex objects using the dot (.) notation inside the `field` property defined in your Columns Definition.

For example, let say that we have this dataset
```ts
const dataset = [
 { item: 'HP Desktop', buyer: { id: 1234, address: { street: '123 belleville', zip: 123456 }},
 { item: 'Lenovo Mouse', buyer: { id: 456, address: { street: '456 hollywood blvd', zip: 789123 }}
];
```

We can now filter the zip code from the buyer's address using this filter:
```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    // the zip is a property of a complex object which is under the "buyer" property
    // it will use the "field" property to explode (from "." notation) and find the child value
    id: 'zip', name: 'ZIP', field: 'buyer.address.zip', filterable: true
   // id: 'street',  ...
  }
];
```

### Filtering empty values
You can filter empty dataset values using `=` (empty values) and `!=` (non-empty values) by default. Using this in a Grid State/Preset will also work. However in some cases you might want to disregard such behavior and for that you can assign the `emptySearchTermReturnAllValues` filter option to `false` which will ignore such filters and delete them from the final search.

Note: the default is different depending on the filter type
- input filter default is `emptySearchTermReturnAllValues: false`
- multiple select filter default is `emptySearchTermReturnAllValues: false`
- single select filter default is `emptySearchTermReturnAllValues: true`
- any other filter type has a default of `emptySearchTermReturnAllValues: true`

For example if you would want to disable this behavior, you can assign `emptySearchTermReturnAllValues: false`
```ts
// define you columns, in this demo Effort Driven will use a Select Filter
this.columnDefinitions = [
  { 
    id: 'lastName', name: 'Last Name', field: 'lastName',
    filterable: true,
    filter: {
       model: Filters.input, // default filter
       emptySearchTermReturnAllValues: true, // True will ignore the filter and return all values (empty & non-empty)
    }
  }
];
```

### Update Filters Dynamically
You can update/change the Filters dynamically (on the fly) via the `updateFilters` method from the `FilterService`. Note that calling this method will override all filters and replace them with the new array of filters provided. For example, you could update the filters from a button click or a select dropdown list with predefined filter set.

##### View
```html
<button class="btn btn-default btn-sm" data-test="set-dynamic-filter" click.delegate="setFiltersDynamically()">
    Set Filters Dynamically
</button>

<angular-slickgrid gridId="grid1"
  [columns]="columnDefinitions"
  [options]="gridOptions"
  [dataset]="dataset"
  (onAngularGridCreated)="angularGridReady($event.detail)">
</angular-slickgrid>
```

##### Component
```ts
export class Example {
  angularGrid: AngularGridInstance;

  angularGridReady(angularGrid: AngularGridInstance) {
    this.angularGrid = angularGrid;
  }

  setFiltersDynamically() {
    // we can Set Filters Dynamically (or different filters) afterward through the FilterService
    this.angularGrid.filterService.updateFilters([
      { columnId: 'duration', searchTerms: [2, 25, 48, 50] },
      { columnId: 'complete', searchTerms: [95], operator: '<' },
      { columnId: 'effort-driven', searchTerms: [true] },
      { columnId: 'start', operator: '>=', searchTerms: ['2001-02-28'] },
    ]);
  }
```

#### Extra Arguments
The `updateFilters` method has 2 extra arguments:
- 2nd argument, defaults to true, is to emit a filter changed event (the GridStateService uses this event)
  - optional and defaults to true `updateFilters([], true)`
- 3rd argument is to trigger a backend query (when using a Backend Service like OData/GraphQL), this could be useful when using updateFilters & updateSorting and you wish to only send the backend query once.
  - optional and defaults to true `updateFilters([], true, true)`

### Query Different Field
Sometime you want to display a certain column (let say `countryName`) but you want to filter from a different column (say `countryCode`), in such use case you can use 1 of these 4 optional
- `queryField`: this will affect both the Filter & Sort
- `queryFieldFilter`: this will affect only the Filter
- `queryFieldSorter`: this will affect only the Sort
- `queryFieldNameGetterFn`: dynamically change column to do Filter/Sort (see below)

### Dynamic Query Field
What if you a field that you only know which field to query only at run time and depending on the item object (`dataContext`)?
We can defined a `queryFieldNameGetterFn` callback that will be executed on each row when Filtering and/or Sorting.
```ts
queryFieldNameGetterFn: (dataContext) => {
  // do your logic and return the field name will be queried
  // for example let say that we query "profitRatio" when we have a profit else we query "lossRatio"
  return dataContext.profit > 0 ? 'profitRatio' : 'lossRatio';
},
```

### Debounce/Throttle Text Search (wait for user to stop typing before filtering)
When having a large dataset, it might be useful to add a debounce delay so that typing multiple character successively won't affect the search time, you can use the `filterTypingDebounce` grid option for that use case. What it will do is simply wait for the user to finish typing before executing the filter condition, you typically don't want to put this number too high and I find that between 250-500 is a good number.
```ts
this.gridOptions = {
   filterTypingDebounce: 250,
};
```

### Ignore Locale Accent in Text Filter/Sorting
You can ignore latin accent (or any other language accent) in text filter via the Grid Option `ignoreAccentOnStringFilterAndSort` flag (default is false)
```ts
this.gridOptions = {
   ignoreAccentOnStringFilterAndSort: true,
};
```

### Custom Filter Predicate
You can provide a custom predicate by using the `filterPredicate` when defining your `filter`, the callback will provide you with 2 arguments (`dataContext` and `searchFilterArgs`). The `searchFilterArgs` has a type of `SearchColumnFilter` interface which will provide you more info about the filter itself (like parsed operator, search terms, column definition, column id and type as well). You can see a live demo at [Example 14](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-universal/#/example14) and the associated [lines](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/blob/1a2c2ff4b72ac3f51b30b1d3d101e84ed9ec9ece/examples/vite-demo-vanilla-bundle/src/examples/example14.ts#L153-L178) of code.

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'title', name: 'Title', field: 'title', sortable: true,
    filterable: true,
    filter: {
      model: Filters.inputText,
      // you can use your own custom filter predicate when built-in filters aren't working for you
      // for example the example below will function similarly to an SQL LIKE to answer this SO: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/78471412/angular-slickgrid-filter
      filterPredicate: (dataContext, searchFilterArgs) => {
        const searchVals = (searchFilterArgs.searchTerms || []) as SearchTerm[];
        if (searchVals?.length) {
          const columnId = searchFilterArgs.columnId;
          const searchVal = searchVals[0] as string;
          const likeMatches = searchVal.split('%');
          if (likeMatches.length > 3) {
            // for matches like "%Ta%10%" will return text that starts with "Ta" and ends with "10" (e.g. "Task 10", "Task 110", "Task 210")
            const [_, start, end] = likeMatches;
            return dataContext[columnId].startsWith(start) && dataContext[columnId].endsWith(end);
          } else if (likeMatches.length > 2) {
            // for matches like "%Ta%10" will return text that starts with "Ta" and contains "10" (e.g. "Task 10", "Task 100", "Task 101")
            const [_, start, contain] = likeMatches;
            return dataContext[columnId].startsWith(start) && dataContext[columnId].includes(contain);
          }
          // for anything else we'll simply expect a Contains
          return dataContext[columnId].includes(searchVal);
        }
        // if we fall here then the value is not filtered out
        return true;
      },
    },
  },
];
```

The custom filter predicate above was to answer a Stack Overflow question and will work similarly to an SQL LIKE matcher (it's not perfect and probably requires more work but is enough to demo the usage of a custom filter predicate)

![image](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/assets/643976/3e77774e-3a9f-4ca4-bca7-50a033a4b48d)

### Filter Shortcuts

User can declare some Filter Shortcuts, that will be added to the Header Menu of the Column it was assigned. These shortcuts are simply a list of filter search values (e.g. Filter the Blank/Non-Blanks Values), the end user can type the same search values themselves but the shortcuts are simply meant to be quicker without having to know what to type (e.g. Filter Current Year).

 The shortcuts can be declared via an array that must include at least a `title` (or `titleKey`) a `searchTerms` array and lastly an optional `operator` can also be provided. The available properties of these shortcut is a merge of Header Menu Item interface (except `command` and `action` which are reserved and assigned internally) and of course the 3 properties mentioned above. The declaration is very similar to how we use it when declaring Grid Presets as shown below

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'country', name: 'Country', field: 'country',
    filter: {
      model: Filters.inputText,
      filterShortcuts: [
        { title: 'Blank Values', searchTerms: ['A'], operator: '<', iconCssClass: 'mdi mdi-filter-minus-outline', },
        { title: 'Non-Blank Values', searchTerms: ['A'], operator: '>', iconCssClass: 'mdi mdi-filter-plus-outline', },
      ]
    },
  },
  {
    id: 'finish', name: 'Finish', field: 'finish',
    filter: {
      model: Filters.dateRange,
      filterShortcuts: [
        {
          // using Locale translations & Tempo to calculate next 30 days
          titleKey: 'NEXT_30_DAYS',
          iconCssClass: 'mdi mdi-calendar',
          searchTerms: [tempoFormat(new Date(), 'YYYY-MM-DD'), tempoFormat(addDay(new Date(), 30), 'YYYY-MM-DD')],
        },
      ]
    },
  },
];
```
