frameworks/aurelia-slickgrid/docs/column-functionalities/editors/select-dropdown-editor.md, before:

#### index
  - [Editor Options (multipleSelectOption interface)](#editor-options-multipleselectoption-interface)
  - [Complex Object](#complex-object)
  - [Collection Async Load (same as Select Filter)](#collection-async-load)
  - [Collection Override](#collection-override)
  - [Collection Label Prefix/Suffix](#collection-label-prefixsuffix)
  - [Collection Label Render HTML](#collection-label-render-html)
  - [Collection Change Watch](#collection-watch)
  - [`multiple-select.js` Options](#multiple-selectjs-options)
  - See the [Editors - Wiki](../Editors.md) for more general info about Editors (validators, event handlers, ...)

## Select Editors
The library ships with two select editors: `singleSelectEditor` and the `multipleSelectEditor`. Both support the [multiple-select](https://github.com/ghiscoding/multiple-select-adapted/blob/master/src/multiple-select.js) library, but fallback to the bootstrap form-control style if you decide to exclude this library from your build. These editors will work with a list of foreign key values (custom structure not supported) and can be displayed properly with the [collectionFormatter](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/blob/master/packages/common/src/formatters/collectionFormatter.ts).

We use an external lib named [multiple-select-vanilla](https://github.com/ghiscoding/multiple-select-vanilla).

Here's an example with a `collection`, `collectionFilterBy` and `collectionSortBy`

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'prerequisites', name: 'Prerequisites', field: 'prerequisites',
    editor: {
      model: Editors.multipleSelect,
      collection: Array.from(Array(12).keys()).map(k => ({ value: `Task ${k}`, label: `Task ${k}` })),
      collectionSortBy: {
        property: 'label',
        sortDesc: true
      },
      collectionFilterBy: {
        property: 'label',
        value: 'Task 2'
      }
    }
  }
];
```

### Editor Options (`MultipleSelectOption` interface)
All the available options that can be provided as editor `options` to your column definitions can be found under this [MultipleSelectOption](https://github.com/ghiscoding/multiple-select-vanilla/blob/main/packages/multiple-select-vanilla/src/models/multipleSelectOption.interface.ts) interface and you should cast your editor `options` to that interface to make sure that you use only valid options of the `multiple-select.js` library.

```ts
editor: {
  model: Editors.SingleSelect,
  // previously known as `editorptions` for < 9.0
  options: {
    maxHeight: 400
  } as MultipleSelectOption
}
```

#### Grid Option `defaultEditorOptions
You could also define certain options as a global level (for the entire grid or even all grids) by taking advantage of the `defaultEditorOptions` Grid Option. Note that they are set via the editor type as a key name (`autocompleter`, `date`, ...) and then the content is the same as editor `options` (also note that each key is already typed with the correct editor option interface), for example

```ts
this.gridOptions = {
  defaultEditorOptions: {
    // Note: that `select` combines both multipleSelect & singleSelect
    select: { minHeight: 350 }, // typed as MultipleSelectOption
  }
}
```

### Complex Object
If your `field` string has a dot (.) it will automatically assume that it is dealing with a complex object. There are however some options you can use with a complex object, the following options from the `ColumnEditor` might be useful to you
```ts
interface ColumnEditor {
  /**
   * When providing a dot (.) notation in the "field" property of a column definition, we might want to use a different path for the editable object itself
   * For example if we provide a coldef = { field: 'user.name' } but we use a SingleSelect Editor with object values, we could override the path to simply 'user'
   */
  complexObjectPath?: string;

  /**
   * defaults to 'object', how do we want to serialize the editor value to the resulting dataContext object when using a complex object?
   * For example, if keep default "object" format and the selected value is { value: 2, label: 'Two' } then the end value will remain as an object, so { value: 2, label: 'Two' }.
   * On the other end, if we set "flat" format and the selected value is { value: 2, label: 'Two' } then the end value will be 2.
   */
  serializeComplexValueFormat?: 'flat' | 'object';
}
```

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [{
  id: 'firstName', name: 'First Name', field: 'user.firstName',
  formatter: Formatters.complexObject, // the complex formatter is necessary, unless you provide a custom formatter
  editor: {
    model: Editors.SingleSelect,
    complexObjectPath: 'user.middleName',
    serializeComplexValueFormat: 'flat' // (flat) will return 'Bob', (object) will return { label: 'Bob', value: 'Bob' }
  }
}];
```

### Collection Override
In some cases you might want to provide a custom collection based on the current item data context (or any other logic), you can do that via the collection override. Also note that this override is processed **after** `collectionFilterBy` and `collectionSortBy` but **before** the `customStructure` (if you have any), in other words make sure that the collection returned by the override does have the properties defined in the "customStructure".

Let take this example, let say that we want to allow collection values lower than or greater than 50 depending on its item Id, we could do the following

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'prerequisites', name: 'Prerequisites', field: 'prerequisites',
    editor: {
      model: Editors.multipleSelect,
      collection: Array.from(Array(12).keys()).map(k => ({ value: `Task ${k}`, label: `Task ${k}` })),
      collectionOverride: (updatedCollection, args) => {
        console.log(args);
        return updatedCollection.filter((col) => args.dataContext.id % 2 ? col.value < 50 : col.value > 50);
      },
    }
  }
];
```

### Collection Label Prefix/Suffix
You can use `labelPrefix` and/or `labelSuffix` which will concatenate the multiple properties together (`labelPrefix` + `label` + `labelSuffix`) which will used by each Select Filter option label. You can also use the property `separatorBetweenTextLabels` to define a separator between prefix, label & suffix.

**Note**
If `enableTranslateLabel` flag is set to `True`, it will also try to translate the Prefix / Suffix / OptionLabel texts.

For example, say you have this collection
```typescript
const currencies = [
  { symbol: '$', currency: 'USD', country: 'USA' },
  { symbol: '$', currency: 'CAD', country: 'Canada' }
];
```

You can display all of these properties inside your dropdown labels, say you want to show (symbol with abbreviation and country name). Now you can.

So you can create the  `multipleSelect` Filter with a `customStructure` by using the symbol as prefix, and country as suffix. That would make up something like this:
- $ USD USA
- $ CAD Canada

with a `customStructure` defined as
```typescript
editor: {
  collection: this.currencies,
  customStructure: {
    value: 'currency',
    label: 'currency',
    labelPrefix: 'symbol',
    labelSuffix: 'country',
  collectionOptions: {
    separatorBetweenTextLabels: ' ', // add white space between each text
    includePrefixSuffixToSelectedValues: true // should the selected value include the prefix/suffix in the output format
  },
  model: Editors.multipleSelect
}
```

### Collection Label Render HTML
By default HTML is not rendered and the `label` will simply show HTML as text. But in some cases you might want to render it, you can do so by enabling the `enableRenderHtml` flag.

**NOTE:** this is currently only used by the Editors that have a `collection` which are the `MultipleSelect` & `SingleSelect` Editors.

```typescript
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'effort-driven', name: 'Effort Driven', field: 'effortDriven',
    formatter: Formatters.checkmarkMaterial,
    type: 'boolean',
    editor: {
      // display checkmark icon when True
      enableRenderHtml: true,
      collection: [{ value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'True', labelPrefix: `<i class="mdi mdi-check"></i> ` }, { value: false, label: 'False' }],
      model: Editors.singleSelect
    }
  }
];
```

### Collection Watch
Sometime you wish that whenever you make a change in your filter collection, you'd like the filter to be updated but it won't do that by default. You could use `enableCollectionWatch` for that purpose which will add a collection observers and re-render the Filter DOM element whenever the collection changes. Also note that using `collectionAsync` will automatically watch for changes, so there's no need to enable this flag for that particular use case.

```typescript
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'effort-driven', name: 'Effort Driven', field: 'effortDriven',
    formatter: Formatters.checkmarkMaterial,
    type: 'boolean',
    editor: {
      // watch for any changes in the collection and re-render when that happens
      enableCollectionWatch: true,
      collection: [{ value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'True' }, { value: false, label: 'False' }],
      model: Editors.singleSelect
    }
  }
];
```

### `multiple-select-vanilla.js` Options
You can use any options from [Multiple-Select.js](http://wenzhixin.net.cn/p/multiple-select) and add them to your editor `options` property. However please note that this is a customized version of the original (all original [lib options](http://wenzhixin.net.cn/p/multiple-select/docs/) are available so you can still consult the original site for all options).

Couple of small options were added to suit SlickGrid-Universal needs, which is why it points to `slickgrid-universal/lib` folder (which is our customized version of the original). This lib is required if you plan to use `multipleSelect` or `singleSelect` Filters. What was customized to (compare to the original) is the following:
- `okButton` option was added to add an OK button for simpler closing of the dropdown after selecting multiple options.
  - `okButtonText` was also added for locale (i18n)
- `offsetLeft` option was added to make it possible to offset the dropdown. By default it is set to 0 and is aligned to the left of the select element. This option is particularly helpful when used as the last right column, not to fall off the screen.
- `autoDropWidth` option was added to automatically resize the dropdown with the same width as the select filter element.
- `autoAdjustDropHeight` (defaults to true), when set will automatically adjust the drop (up or down) height
- `autoAdjustDropPosition` (defaults to true), when set will automatically calculate the area with the most available space and use best possible choise for the drop to show (up or down)
- `autoAdjustDropWidthByTextSize` (defaults to true), when set will automatically adjust the drop (up or down) width by the text size (it will use largest text width)
- to extend the previous 3 autoAdjustX flags, the following options can be helpful
   - `minWidth` (defaults to null, to use when `autoAdjustDropWidthByTextSize` is enabled)
   - `maxWidth` (defaults to 500, to use when `autoAdjustDropWidthByTextSize` is enabled)
   - `adjustHeightPadding` (defaults to 10, to use when `autoAdjustDropHeight` is enabled), when using `autoAdjustDropHeight` we might want to add a bottom (or top) padding instead of taking the entire available space
   - `maxHeight` (defaults to 275, to use when `autoAdjustDropHeight` is enabled)

##### Code
```typescript
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'isActive', name: 'Is Active', field: 'isActive',
    filterable: true,
    editor: {
      collection: [{ value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'true' }, { value: false, label: 'false' }],
      model: Editors.singleSelect,
      elementOptions: {
        // add any multiple-select.js options (from original or custom version)
        autoAdjustDropPosition: false, // by default set to True, but you can disable it
        position: 'top'
      }
    }
  }
];
```

Commit message:

docs: replace all ms-select.js reference with multiple-select-vanilla

frameworks/aurelia-slickgrid/docs/column-functionalities/editors/select-dropdown-editor.md, after:

#### index
  - [Editor Options (multipleSelectOption interface)](#editor-options-multipleselectoption-interface)
  - [Complex Object](#complex-object)
  - [Collection Async Load (same as Select Filter)](#collection-async-load)
  - [Collection Override](#collection-override)
  - [Collection Label Prefix/Suffix](#collection-label-prefixsuffix)
  - [Collection Label Render HTML](#collection-label-render-html)
  - [Collection Change Watch](#collection-watch)
  - [`multiple-select-vanilla` Options](#multiple-selectjs-options)
  - See the [Editors - Wiki](../Editors.md) for more general info about Editors (validators, event handlers, ...)

## Select Editors
The library ships with two select editors: `singleSelectEditor` and the `multipleSelectEditor`. Both support the [multiple-select-vanilla](https://github.com/ghiscoding/multiple-select-vanilla) library, but fallback to the bootstrap form-control style if you decide to exclude this library from your build. These editors will work with a list of foreign key values (custom structure not supported) and can be displayed properly with the [collectionFormatter](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/blob/master/packages/common/src/formatters/collectionFormatter.ts).

We use an external lib named [multiple-select-vanilla](https://github.com/ghiscoding/multiple-select-vanilla).

Here's an example with a `collection`, `collectionFilterBy` and `collectionSortBy`

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'prerequisites', name: 'Prerequisites', field: 'prerequisites',
    editor: {
      model: Editors.multipleSelect,
      collection: Array.from(Array(12).keys()).map(k => ({ value: `Task ${k}`, label: `Task ${k}` })),
      collectionSortBy: {
        property: 'label',
        sortDesc: true
      },
      collectionFilterBy: {
        property: 'label',
        value: 'Task 2'
      }
    }
  }
];
```

### Editor Options (`MultipleSelectOption` interface)
All the available options that can be provided as editor `options` to your column definitions can be found under this [MultipleSelectOption](https://github.com/ghiscoding/multiple-select-vanilla/blob/main/packages/multiple-select-vanilla/src/models/multipleSelectOption.interface.ts) interface and you should cast your editor `options` to that interface to make sure that you use only valid options of the `multiple-select-vanilla` library.

```ts
editor: {
  model: Editors.SingleSelect,
  // previously known as `editorptions` for < 9.0
  options: {
    maxHeight: 400
  } as MultipleSelectOption
}
```

#### Grid Option `defaultEditorOptions
You could also define certain options as a global level (for the entire grid or even all grids) by taking advantage of the `defaultEditorOptions` Grid Option. Note that they are set via the editor type as a key name (`autocompleter`, `date`, ...) and then the content is the same as editor `options` (also note that each key is already typed with the correct editor option interface), for example

```ts
this.gridOptions = {
  defaultEditorOptions: {
    // Note: that `select` combines both multipleSelect & singleSelect
    select: { minHeight: 350 }, // typed as MultipleSelectOption
  }
}
```

### Complex Object
If your `field` string has a dot (.) it will automatically assume that it is dealing with a complex object. There are however some options you can use with a complex object, the following options from the `ColumnEditor` might be useful to you
```ts
interface ColumnEditor {
  /**
   * When providing a dot (.) notation in the "field" property of a column definition, we might want to use a different path for the editable object itself
   * For example if we provide a coldef = { field: 'user.name' } but we use a SingleSelect Editor with object values, we could override the path to simply 'user'
   */
  complexObjectPath?: string;

  /**
   * defaults to 'object', how do we want to serialize the editor value to the resulting dataContext object when using a complex object?
   * For example, if keep default "object" format and the selected value is { value: 2, label: 'Two' } then the end value will remain as an object, so { value: 2, label: 'Two' }.
   * On the other end, if we set "flat" format and the selected value is { value: 2, label: 'Two' } then the end value will be 2.
   */
  serializeComplexValueFormat?: 'flat' | 'object';
}
```

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [{
  id: 'firstName', name: 'First Name', field: 'user.firstName',
  formatter: Formatters.complexObject, // the complex formatter is necessary, unless you provide a custom formatter
  editor: {
    model: Editors.SingleSelect,
    complexObjectPath: 'user.middleName',
    serializeComplexValueFormat: 'flat' // (flat) will return 'Bob', (object) will return { label: 'Bob', value: 'Bob' }
  }
}];
```

### Collection Override
In some cases you might want to provide a custom collection based on the current item data context (or any other logic), you can do that via the collection override. Also note that this override is processed **after** `collectionFilterBy` and `collectionSortBy` but **before** the `customStructure` (if you have any), in other words make sure that the collection returned by the override does have the properties defined in the "customStructure".

Let take this example, let say that we want to allow collection values lower than or greater than 50 depending on its item Id, we could do the following

```ts
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'prerequisites', name: 'Prerequisites', field: 'prerequisites',
    editor: {
      model: Editors.multipleSelect,
      collection: Array.from(Array(12).keys()).map(k => ({ value: `Task ${k}`, label: `Task ${k}` })),
      collectionOverride: (updatedCollection, args) => {
        console.log(args);
        return updatedCollection.filter((col) => args.dataContext.id % 2 ? col.value < 50 : col.value > 50);
      },
    }
  }
];
```

### Collection Label Prefix/Suffix
You can use `labelPrefix` and/or `labelSuffix` which will concatenate the multiple properties together (`labelPrefix` + `label` + `labelSuffix`) which will used by each Select Filter option label. You can also use the property `separatorBetweenTextLabels` to define a separator between prefix, label & suffix.

**Note**
If `enableTranslateLabel` flag is set to `True`, it will also try to translate the Prefix / Suffix / OptionLabel texts.

For example, say you have this collection
```typescript
const currencies = [
  { symbol: '$', currency: 'USD', country: 'USA' },
  { symbol: '$', currency: 'CAD', country: 'Canada' }
];
```

You can display all of these properties inside your dropdown labels, say you want to show (symbol with abbreviation and country name). Now you can.

So you can create the  `multipleSelect` Filter with a `customStructure` by using the symbol as prefix, and country as suffix. That would make up something like this:
- $ USD USA
- $ CAD Canada

with a `customStructure` defined as
```typescript
editor: {
  collection: this.currencies,
  customStructure: {
    value: 'currency',
    label: 'currency',
    labelPrefix: 'symbol',
    labelSuffix: 'country',
  collectionOptions: {
    separatorBetweenTextLabels: ' ', // add white space between each text
    includePrefixSuffixToSelectedValues: true // should the selected value include the prefix/suffix in the output format
  },
  model: Editors.multipleSelect
}
```

### Collection Label Render HTML
By default HTML is not rendered and the `label` will simply show HTML as text. But in some cases you might want to render it, you can do so by enabling the `enableRenderHtml` flag.

**NOTE:** this is currently only used by the Editors that have a `collection` which are the `MultipleSelect` & `SingleSelect` Editors.

```typescript
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'effort-driven', name: 'Effort Driven', field: 'effortDriven',
    formatter: Formatters.checkmarkMaterial,
    type: 'boolean',
    editor: {
      // display checkmark icon when True
      enableRenderHtml: true,
      collection: [{ value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'True', labelPrefix: `<i class="mdi mdi-check"></i> ` }, { value: false, label: 'False' }],
      model: Editors.singleSelect
    }
  }
];
```

### Collection Watch
Sometime you wish that whenever you make a change in your filter collection, you'd like the filter to be updated but it won't do that by default. You could use `enableCollectionWatch` for that purpose which will add a collection observers and re-render the Filter DOM element whenever the collection changes. Also note that using `collectionAsync` will automatically watch for changes, so there's no need to enable this flag for that particular use case.

```typescript
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'effort-driven', name: 'Effort Driven', field: 'effortDriven',
    formatter: Formatters.checkmarkMaterial,
    type: 'boolean',
    editor: {
      // watch for any changes in the collection and re-render when that happens
      enableCollectionWatch: true,
      collection: [{ value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'True' }, { value: false, label: 'False' }],
      model: Editors.singleSelect
    }
  }
];
```

### `multiple-select-vanilla.js` Options
You can use any options from [multiple-select-vanilla](https://github.com/ghiscoding/multiple-select-vanilla) and add them to your editor `options` property. However please note that this is a customized version of the original (all original [lib options](https://ghiscoding.github.io/multiple-select-vanilla/) are available so you can still consult the original site for all options).

Couple of small options were added to suit SlickGrid-Universal needs, which is why it points to `slickgrid-universal/lib` folder (which is our customized version of the original). This lib is required if you plan to use `multipleSelect` or `singleSelect` Filters. What was customized to (compare to the original) is the following:
- `okButton` option was added to add an OK button for simpler closing of the dropdown after selecting multiple options.
  - `okButtonText` was also added for locale (i18n)
- `offsetLeft` option was added to make it possible to offset the dropdown. By default it is set to 0 and is aligned to the left of the select element. This option is particularly helpful when used as the last right column, not to fall off the screen.
- `autoDropWidth` option was added to automatically resize the dropdown with the same width as the select filter element.
- `autoAdjustDropHeight` (defaults to true), when set will automatically adjust the drop (up or down) height
- `autoAdjustDropPosition` (defaults to true), when set will automatically calculate the area with the most available space and use best possible choise for the drop to show (up or down)
- `autoAdjustDropWidthByTextSize` (defaults to true), when set will automatically adjust the drop (up or down) width by the text size (it will use largest text width)
- to extend the previous 3 autoAdjustX flags, the following options can be helpful
   - `minWidth` (defaults to null, to use when `autoAdjustDropWidthByTextSize` is enabled)
   - `maxWidth` (defaults to 500, to use when `autoAdjustDropWidthByTextSize` is enabled)
   - `adjustHeightPadding` (defaults to 10, to use when `autoAdjustDropHeight` is enabled), when using `autoAdjustDropHeight` we might want to add a bottom (or top) padding instead of taking the entire available space
   - `maxHeight` (defaults to 275, to use when `autoAdjustDropHeight` is enabled)

##### Code
```typescript
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'isActive', name: 'Is Active', field: 'isActive',
    filterable: true,
    editor: {
      collection: [{ value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'true' }, { value: false, label: 'false' }],
      model: Editors.singleSelect,
      elementOptions: {
        // add any multiple-select-vanilla options (from original or custom version)
        autoAdjustDropPosition: false, // by default set to True, but you can disable it
        position: 'top'
      }
    }
  }
];
```
