frameworks/slickgrid-vue/README.md, before:

# Slickgrid-Vue

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3C%2F%3E-TypeScript-%230074c1.svg)](http://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Cypress.io](https://img.shields.io/badge/tested%20with-Cypress-04C38E.svg?logo=cypress)](https://www.cypress.io/)
[![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dy/slickgrid-vue)](https://npmjs.org/package/slickgrid-vue)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/slickgrid-vue.svg?logo=npm&logoColor=fff&label=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slickgrid-vue)
[![npm bundle size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/slickgrid-vue?color=success&label=gzip)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=slickgrid-vue)
[![Actions Status](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue/workflows/CI%20Build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue/actions)

### Brief introduction
One of the best JavasSript data grid [SlickGrid](https://github.com/mleibman/SlickGrid), which was originally developed by @mleibman, is now available to the Vue world. SlickGrid beats most other data grids in terms of features, customizability & performance (running smoothly with even a million rows). Slickgrid-Vue is a wrapper on top of [Slickgrid-Universal](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/) (which is a dependency).

## Documentation
📘 [Documentation](https://ghiscoding.gitbook.io/slickgrid-vue/getting-started/quick-start) website powered by GitBook.

## Installation
Available in Stackblitz (Codeflow) below, this can also be used to provide an issue repro.

[![Open in Codeflow](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_codeflow.svg)](https:///pr.new/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue)

Refer to the **[Docs - Quick Start](https://ghiscoding.gitbook.io/slickgrid-vue/getting-started/quick-start)** and/or clone the [Slickgrid-Vue-Demos](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos) repository. Please consult all documentation before opening new issues, also consider asking installation and/or general questions on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/search?tab=newest&q=slickgrid) unless you think there's a bug with the library.

### NPM Package
[slickgrid-vue on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slickgrid-vue)

### Styling Themes

Multiple styling themes are available
- Bootstrap (see all Slickgrid-Vue [live demos](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-vue/))
- Material (see [Slickgrid-Universal](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-universal/#/example07))
- Salesforce (see [Slickgrid-Universal](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-universal/#/example16))

Also note that all of these themes also have **Dark Theme** equivalent and even though Bootstrap if often used as the default, it also works well with any other UI framework like Bulma, Material, ...

### Live Demo page
`Slickgrid-Vue` works with all `Bootstrap` versions, you can see a demo of each one below. It also works well with any other frameworks like Material or Bulma and there are also couple of extra styling themes based on Material & Salesforce which are also available. You can also use different SVG icons, you may want to look at the [Docs - SVG Icons](https://ghiscoding.gitbook.io/slickgrid-vue/styling/svg-icons)
- [Bootstrap 5 demo](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-vue) / [examples repo](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos/tree/main/bootstrap5-i18n-demo)

#### Working Demos
For a complete set of working demos (40+ examples), we strongly suggest you to clone the [Slickgrid-Vue Demos](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos) repository (instructions are provided in the demo repo). The repo provides multiple demos and they are updated every time a new version is out, so it is updated frequently and is also used as the GitHub live demo page.

## License
[MIT License](LICENSE)

## Latest News & Releases
Check out the [Releases](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue/releases) section for all latest News & Releases.

### Tested with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) (E2E Tests)
Slickgrid-Universal has **100%** Unit Test Coverage and all Slickgrid-Vue Examples are tested with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) as E2E tests.

### Like it? ⭐ it
You like **Slickgrid-Vue**? Be sure to upvote ⭐, and perhaps support me with caffeine [☕](https://ko-fi.com/ghiscoding) and feel free to contribute. 👷👷‍♀️

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/ghiscoding' target='_blank'><img height='32' style='border:0px;height:32px;' src='https://az743702.vo.msecnd.net/cdn/kofi3.png?v=0' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com' />

## Sponsors

<div>
  <img class="circle avatar-user" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/48218815?s=52&amp;v=4" width="40" height="40" alt="@kevinburkett" />
  <a href="/kevinburkett" class="Link">
    <span class="wb-break-word ml-2">kevinburkett</span>
  </a>
</div>

Commit message:

docs: add more Slickgrid-Vue details & links

frameworks/slickgrid-vue/README.md, after:

# Slickgrid-Vue

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![TypeScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/%3C%2F%3E-TypeScript-%230074c1.svg)](http://www.typescriptlang.org/)
[![Cypress.io](https://img.shields.io/badge/tested%20with-Cypress-04C38E.svg?logo=cypress)](https://www.cypress.io/)
[![NPM downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dy/slickgrid-vue)](https://npmjs.org/package/slickgrid-vue)
[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/slickgrid-vue.svg?logo=npm&logoColor=fff&label=npm)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slickgrid-vue)
[![npm bundle size](https://img.shields.io/bundlephobia/minzip/slickgrid-vue?color=success&label=gzip)](https://bundlephobia.com/result?p=slickgrid-vue)
[![Actions Status](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/actions/workflows/vue-cypress.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/actions/workflows/vue-cypress.yml)

> [!WARNING]
> Please note that Slickgrid-Vue is still in active development and usage might change depending on the feedback provided by external users like you. However, I don't expect much changes, all examples seem to work as intended. Give it a try!

### Brief introduction
One of the best JavasSript data grid [SlickGrid](https://github.com/mleibman/SlickGrid), which was originally developed by @mleibman, is now available to the Vue world. SlickGrid beats most other data grids in terms of features, customizability & performance (running smoothly with even a million rows). Slickgrid-Vue is a wrapper on top of [Slickgrid-Universal](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/) (which is a dependency).

## Documentation
📘 [Documentation](https://ghiscoding.gitbook.io/slickgrid-vue/getting-started/quick-start) website powered by GitBook.

## Installation
Available in Stackblitz (Codeflow) below, this can also be used to provide an issue repro.

[![Open in Codeflow](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_codeflow.svg)](https:///pr.new/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue)

Refer to the **[Docs - Quick Start](https://ghiscoding.gitbook.io/slickgrid-vue/getting-started/quick-start)** and/or clone the [Slickgrid-Vue-Demos](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos) repository. Please consult all documentation before opening new issues, also consider asking installation and/or general questions on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/search?tab=newest&q=slickgrid) unless you think there's a bug with the library.

### NPM Package
[slickgrid-vue on NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/slickgrid-vue)

### Styling Themes

Multiple styling themes are available
- Bootstrap (see all Slickgrid-Vue [live demos](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-vue/))
- Material (see [Slickgrid-Universal](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-universal/#/example07))
- Salesforce (see [Slickgrid-Universal](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-universal/#/example16))

Also note that all of these themes also have **Dark Theme** equivalent and even though Bootstrap if often used as the default, it also works well with any other UI framework like Bulma, Material, ...

### Live Demo page
`Slickgrid-Vue` works with all `Bootstrap` versions, you can see a demo of each one below. It also works well with any other frameworks like Material or Bulma and there are also couple of extra styling themes based on Material & Salesforce which are also available. You can also use different SVG icons, you may want to look at the [Docs - SVG Icons](https://ghiscoding.gitbook.io/slickgrid-vue/styling/svg-icons)
- [Bootstrap 5 demo](https://ghiscoding.github.io/slickgrid-vue) / [examples repo](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos/tree/main/bootstrap5-i18n-demo)

#### Working Demos
For a complete set of working demos (40+ examples), we strongly suggest you to clone the [Slickgrid-Vue Demos](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos) repository (instructions are provided in the demo repo). The repo provides multiple demos and they are updated every time a new version is out, so it is updated frequently and is also used as the GitHub live demo page.

## License
[MIT License](LICENSE)

## Latest News & Releases
Check out the [Releases](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue/releases) section for all latest News & Releases.

### Tested with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) (E2E Tests)
Slickgrid-Universal has **100%** Unit Test Coverage and all Slickgrid-Vue Examples are tested with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) as E2E tests.

### Like it? ⭐ it
You like **Slickgrid-Vue**? Be sure to upvote ⭐, and perhaps support me with caffeine [☕](https://ko-fi.com/ghiscoding) and feel free to contribute. 👷👷‍♀️

<a href='https://ko-fi.com/ghiscoding' target='_blank'><img height='32' style='border:0px;height:32px;' src='https://az743702.vo.msecnd.net/cdn/kofi3.png?v=0' border='0' alt='Buy Me a Coffee at ko-fi.com' />

## Sponsors

<div>
  <img class="circle avatar-user" src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/48218815?s=52&amp;v=4" width="40" height="40" alt="@kevinburkett" />
  <a href="/kevinburkett" class="Link">
    <span class="wb-break-word ml-2">kevinburkett</span>
  </a>
</div>
