frameworks/slickgrid-vue/docs/localization/localization-with-custom-locales.md, before:

## Description
Most of example that you will find across this library were made with `I18N` (dynamic translation) support. However a few users of the lib only use 1 locale (English or any other locale). Since not all users requires multiple translations, it is now possible to use `slickgrid-vue` without `I18N`. If you don't provide `I18N`, it will simply try to use Custom Locales, you can provide your own locales (see instruction below), or if none are provided it will use English locales by default.

## Installation
There are 2 ways of using and defining Custom Locales, see below on how to achieve that.

### 1. Define your Custom Locales
#### English Locale
English is the default, if that is the locale you want to use then there's nothing to do, move along...

#### Any other Locales (not English)
To use any other Locales, you will need to create a TypeScript (or JavaScript) of all the Locale Texts required for the library to work properly (if you forget to define a locale text, it will simply show up in English). For example, if we define a French Locale, it would look like this (for the complete list of required field take a look at the default [English Locale](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos/blob/main/bootstrap5-i18n-demo/src/assets/locales/en/translation.json))
```ts
// localeFrench.ts or fr.ts
export const localeFrench = {
  // texte requis
  TEXT_ALL_SELECTED: 'Tout sélectionnés',
  TEXT_CANCEL: 'Annuler',
  TEXT_CLEAR_ALL_FILTERS: 'Supprimer tous les filtres',
  TEXT_CLEAR_ALL_SORTING: 'Supprimer tous les tris',
  // ... the rest of the text
```

#### 2. Use the Custom Locales
##### Through the Grid Option of any grid
You can alternatively provide Custom Locales through any grid declaration through the `locales` Grid Options (it's the same as the global one, except that it's per grid)

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { localeFrench } from 'locales/fr';

function defineGrid() {
  const columnDefinitions = [ /* ... */ ];

  const gridOptions = {
    enableAutoResize: true,

    // provide Custom Locale to this grid only
    locales: localeFrench
  };
}
</script>
```

#### 3. Use the lib (without I18N)
There's nothing else to do, just use the library without defining or providing I18N and you're good to go. Read through the Wiki of the [HOWTO - Quick Start](../getting-started/quick-start.md) for basic grid samples.

Commit message:

feat(vue): make I18Next totally optional in Slickgrid-Vue (#1765)
* feat(vue): make I18Next totally optional in Slickgrid-Vue

frameworks/slickgrid-vue/docs/localization/localization-with-custom-locales.md, after:

## Description
Most of the examples that you will find across this library were written with `I18Next` usage (dynamic translation) support. However a few users of the library are only interested in using only 1 locale (English or any other locale). Since not every users require multiple translations, it is now possible to use `slickgrid-vue` without `I18Next`. If you don't provide `I18Next`, it will simply try to use Custom Locales, you can provide your own locales (see instruction below), or if none are provided it will use English locales by default.

## Installation
There are 2 ways of using and defining Custom Locales, see below on how to achieve that.

### 1. Define your Custom Locales
#### English Locale
English is the default, if that is the locale you want to use then there's nothing to do, move along...

#### Any other Locales (not English)
To use any other Locales, you will need to create a TypeScript (or JavaScript) of all the Locale Texts required for the library to work properly (if you forget to define a locale text, it will simply show up in English). For example, if we define a French Locale, it would look like this (for the complete list of required field take a look at the default [English Locale](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-vue-demos/blob/main/src/assets/locales/en/translation.json)).

```ts
// localeFrench.ts or fr.ts
export const localeFrench = {
  // texte requis
  TEXT_ALL_SELECTED: 'Tout sélectionnés',
  TEXT_CANCEL: 'Annuler',
  TEXT_CLEAR_ALL_FILTERS: 'Supprimer tous les filtres',
  TEXT_CLEAR_ALL_SORTING: 'Supprimer tous les tris',
  // ... the rest of the text
}
```

#### 2. Use the Custom Locales
##### Through the Grid Option of any grid
You can alternatively provide Custom Locales through any grid declaration through the `locales` Grid Options (it's the same as the global one, except that it's per grid)

```vue
<script setup lang="ts">
import { localeFrench } from 'locales/fr';

function defineGrid() {
  const columnDefinitions = [ /* ... */ ];

  const gridOptions = {
    enableAutoResize: true,

    // provide Custom Locale to this grid only
    locales: localeFrench
  };
}
</script>
```

#### 3. Use the lib (without I18Next)
There's nothing else to do, just use the library without defining or providing I18Next and you're good to go. Read through the Wiki of the [HOWTO - Quick Start](../getting-started/quick-start.md) for basic grid samples.
