docs/migrations/migration-to-5.x.md, before:

## Version 5 - Better Dark Mode with Pure CSS SVG icons
This new release brings a lot of changes oriented towards better UI/UX, our SVG icons are now pure CSS and can be colorized like any other text via the `color` CSS property (which helps a lot for the Dark Mode Theme).

Another noticeable UI change is the migration from [Flatpickr](https://flatpickr.js.org/) to [Vanilla-Calendar-Picker](https://github.com/ghiscoding/vanilla-calendar-picker) (which is in fact a fork of [Vanilla-Calendar-Pro](https://vanilla-calendar.pro/) and maybe one day we'll drop the fork if possible), there are multiple reasons to migrate our date picker to another library:
- Flatpickr cons:
  - barely supported (lots of opened PR but nothing merged for the past 2 years)
  - not fully ESM ready (it's only partially ESM, for example it is detected as CJS in Angular-Slickgrid and requires to be added to `allowedCommonJsDependencies`)
  - styling could be a bit more modern (the use of native select/input to change year/month/time is a bit outdated and rudimentary)
  - date range selection is not very user friendly (UX)
- Vanilla-Calendar pros:
  - ESM ready
  - modern styling and also include Dark Mode theme
  - date range becomes a lot more easy by displaying a picker with 2 months
  - much smaller size (a decrease of 2.9% (17Kb) was observed, expect even more decrease with gzip)
- Vanilla-Calendar cons:
  - settings are named differently and are not using flat config (complex object settings)
    - for example Flatpickr `minDate: 'today'` is instead `range: { min: 'today' }`
  - some settings were missing, like the `'today'` shortcut which is why I forked the project
    - I did open a few PRs on the main project, so the hope is to drop the fork in the future while being a totally transparent change to the user (you)

Similar to previous releases, I managed to decrease the project build size even more (about 5%). At this point, the project has a smaller size to what it was in v2.x (that is when we were using jQuery/jQueryUI separately). Considering that we're no longer using jQuery/jQueryUI in the project, and also consider that these 2 dependencies were well over 200Kb combined, then our project build size is in fact a lot smaller than it was 2 years ago in v2.x. This is really nice to see especially since we keep adding features (like Dark Mode and others) while still decreasing its size :)

#### Major Changes - Quick Summary
- minimum requirements bump
  - Node 18 is now required
  - migrate to [Vanilla-Calendar-Picker](https://github.com/ghiscoding/vanilla-calendar-picker) (visit [Vanilla-Calendar-Pro](https://vanilla-calendar.pro/) for all docs)

> **Note** for the entire list of tasks & code changes applied in this release, you may want to take a look at the [Discussion - Roadmap to 5.0](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/discussions/1482)

---

**NOTE:** if you come from an earlier version, please make sure to follow each migrations in their respected order (review other migration guides)

## Changes

### Styling

#### `.color-xx` are removed (use `.text-color-xx` instead)
Since the SVG icons are now pure CSS, we can now colorize them the same way that we would do for any other text via the `color` CSS property. Because of that, we no longer need any of the `.color-xx` classes (which were created via CSS [filter](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/filter)). They were useful to override the SVG icon colors, but since we can now use regular `color` property, I decided to keep only the `text-color-xx` and remove all `color-xx`

```diff
<button class="button is-small">
- <span class="icon"><i class="mdi mdi-undo color-primary"></i></span>
+ <span class="icon"><i class="mdi mdi-undo text-color-primary"></i></span>
  <span class="text-color-primary">Undo Last Edit</span>
</button>
```
or move the class to the parent container and have both the icon and the text inherit the color :)
```diff
+ <button class="button is-small text-color-primary">
- <span class="icon"><i class="mdi mdi-undo color-primary"></i></span>
+ <span class="icon"><i class="mdi mdi-undo"></i></span>
- <span>Undo Last Edit</span>
</button>
```

##### SASS variables
A lot of SASS variables changed, we recommend you take a look at the [_variables.scss](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/blob/master/packages/common/src/styles/_variables.scss) file to compare with yours SASS overrides and fix any SASS build issues.

##### SASS `math` polyfills are removed
When Dart-SASS released their version 1.33, it caused a lot of console warnings (and lot of unhappy users) in projects that were using `/` (for math division) instead of their new `math.div` function. To avoid seeing all these warnings, I had created a temporary polyfill (that piece of code was actually copied from Bootstrap project). This change happened 3 years ago, so I'm assuming that most users have already upgraded their SASS and fix these warnings and I think it's time to remove this polyfill since it was always meant to be a temp patch. If you see these warnings coming back, you can use the SASS option `--quiet-upstream`.

For reference, below is an example of these old Math warnings when we used to compile it with SASS CLI

```sh
Recommendation: math.div($m, $columns)
More info and automated migrator: https://sass-lang.com/d/slash-div
╷
94 │ margin-right: $m / $columns * 100%
│ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

##### jQueryUI CSS class leftovers
There were a few `.ui-state-default` and other jQueryUI CSS classes leftovers in the core lib, they were all removed in this release. If you were using any of them for styling purposes, you can simply rename them to `.slick-state-`

```diff
- .ui-state-default, .ui-state-hover {
+ .slick-state-default, .slick-state-hover {
}
```

### Deprecated code removed/renamed
##### `getHTMLFromFragment()` removed
The function `getHTMLFromFragment()` was removed in favor of `getHtmlStringOutput()`, the new function will auto-detect if it's a DocumentFragment, an HTMLElement or an HTML string and will execute the appropriate action.

#### Formatters Cleanup & Removals

Since we now only use SVG and we got rid of any Font usage (no more Font-Awesome code anywhere), the `checkmark` Formatter no longer has any reason to exist and was removed. If you were using and still use Font-Awesome in your project, you'll have to either recreate the Formatter yourself or use alternatives. You could use the `Formatters.icon` or `Formatters.iconBoolean` which require the CSS classes to be provided via `params`. As a last alternative, and if you are importing the optional SVG icons `.mdi`, then we recommend you simply use the `checkmarkMaterial` Formatter.

```diff
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'isActive', name: 'Active', field: 'isActive',
-   formatter: Formatters.checkmark
+   formatter: Formatters.checkmarkMaterial
  },
];
```
or create a Custom Formatter

```ts
// create a custom Formatter and returning a string and/or an object of type FormatterResultObject
const myCheckmarkFormatter: Formatter = (row: number, cell: number, value: any, columnDef: Column, dataContext: any) => {
  const iconElm = document.createElement('i');
  iconElm.className = value ? 'mdi mdi-check' : '';
  return iconElm;

  // simple HTML string
  return value ? '<i class="mdi mdi-check"></i>' : '';
}
```

## Grid Functionalities

### Native Select Filter (removed)
I would be surprised if anyone uses the `Filters.select` and so it was removed, you should simply use the `Filters.singleSelect` or `Filters.multipleSelect`

```diff
prepareGrid() {
  this.columnDefinitions = [{
    id: 'isActive', name: 'Active', field: 'isActive',
    filter: {
-      model: Filters.select,
+      model: Filters.singleSelect,
       collection: [ { value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'true' }, { value: false, label: 'false' } ],
    }
  }];
}
```

### Date Editor/Filter
We migrated from Flatpicker to Vanilla-Calendar and this require some changes since the option names are different. The changes are the same for both the Filter and the Editor.

The biggest change that you will have to do is the min/max date setting when using the `'today'` shortcut as shown below:

```diff
- import { type FlatpickrOption } from '@slickgrid-universal/common';
+ import { type VanillaCalendarOption } from '@slickgrid-universal/common';

prepareGrid() {
  this.columnDefinitions = [{
    id: 'finish', name: 'Finish', field: 'finish',
    editor: {
      model: Editors.date,
-      editorOptions: { minDate: 'today' } as FlatpickrOption,
+      editorOptions: { range: { min: 'today' } } as VanillaCalendarOption,
    }
  }];
}
```

> **Note** the `'today'` shortcut currently only exist in `Vanilla-Calendar-Picker` fork, however the rest of the settings should be similar, visit `Vanilla-Calendar-Pro` [settings](https://vanilla-calendar.pro/docs/reference/additionally/settings) website for all other options. The hope is to drop the fork whenever the original project receives all missing features.

### Multiple-Select
Please note that in previous version we were re-exporting the `MultipleSelectOption` interface from the `Multiple-Select-Vanilla` library, however re-exporting is typically discouraged by the TypeScript team and so it was removed. The change is quite simple, you simply need to import the `MultipleSelectOption` interface from the `multiple-select-vanilla` external library.

```diff
- import { MultipleSelectOption } from '@slickgrid-universal/common';
+ import { MultipleSelectOption } from 'multiple-select-vanilla';

prepareGrid() {
  this.columnDefinitions = [{
    id: 'isActive', name: 'Active', field: 'isActive',
    editor: {
      model: Editors.singleSelect,
      collection: [ { value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'true' }, { value: false, label: 'false' } ],
      editorOptions: { maxHeight: 400 } as MultipleSelectOption
    }
  }];
}
```

Commit message:

docs: add missing migration and docs for updated "lite" theme

docs/migrations/migration-to-5.x.md, after:

## Version 5 - Better Dark Mode with Pure CSS SVG icons
This new release brings a lot of changes oriented towards better UI/UX, our SVG icons are now pure CSS and can be colorized like any other text via the `color` CSS property (which helps a lot for the Dark Mode Theme).

Another noticeable UI change is the migration from [Flatpickr](https://flatpickr.js.org/) to [Vanilla-Calendar-Picker](https://github.com/ghiscoding/vanilla-calendar-picker) (which is in fact a fork of [Vanilla-Calendar-Pro](https://vanilla-calendar.pro/) and maybe one day we'll drop the fork if possible), there are multiple reasons to migrate our date picker to another library:
- Flatpickr cons:
  - barely supported (lots of opened PR but nothing merged for the past 2 years)
  - not fully ESM ready (it's only partially ESM, for example it is detected as CJS in Angular-Slickgrid and requires to be added to `allowedCommonJsDependencies`)
  - styling could be a bit more modern (the use of native select/input to change year/month/time is a bit outdated and rudimentary)
  - date range selection is not very user friendly (UX)
- Vanilla-Calendar pros:
  - ESM ready
  - modern styling and also include Dark Mode theme
  - date range becomes a lot more easy by displaying a picker with 2 months
  - much smaller size (a decrease of 2.9% (17Kb) was observed, expect even more decrease with gzip)
- Vanilla-Calendar cons:
  - settings are named differently and are not using flat config (complex object settings)
    - for example Flatpickr `minDate: 'today'` is instead `range: { min: 'today' }`
  - some settings were missing, like the `'today'` shortcut which is why I forked the project
    - I did open a few PRs on the main project, so the hope is to drop the fork in the future while being a totally transparent change to the user (you)

Similar to previous releases, I managed to decrease the project build size even more (about 5%). At this point, the project has a smaller size to what it was in v2.x (that is when we were using jQuery/jQueryUI separately). Considering that we're no longer using jQuery/jQueryUI in the project, and also consider that these 2 dependencies were well over 200Kb combined, then our project build size is in fact a lot smaller than it was 2 years ago in v2.x. This is really nice to see especially since we keep adding features (like Dark Mode and others) while still decreasing its size :)

#### Major Changes - Quick Summary
- minimum requirements bump
  - Node 18 is now required
  - migrate to [Vanilla-Calendar-Picker](https://github.com/ghiscoding/vanilla-calendar-picker) (visit [Vanilla-Calendar-Pro](https://vanilla-calendar.pro/) for all docs)

> **Note** for the entire list of tasks & code changes applied in this release, you may want to take a look at the [Discussion - Roadmap to 5.0](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/discussions/1482)

---

**NOTE:** if you come from an earlier version, please make sure to follow each migrations in their respected order (review other migration guides)

## Changes

### Styling

#### `.color-xx` are removed (use `.text-color-xx` instead)
Since the SVG icons are now pure CSS, we can now colorize them the same way that we would do for any other text via the `color` CSS property. Because of that, we no longer need any of the `.color-xx` classes (which were created via CSS [filter](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/filter)). They were useful to override the SVG icon colors, but since we can now use regular `color` property, I decided to keep only the `text-color-xx` and remove all `color-xx`

```diff
<button class="button is-small">
- <span class="icon"><i class="mdi mdi-undo color-primary"></i></span>
+ <span class="icon"><i class="mdi mdi-undo text-color-primary"></i></span>
  <span class="text-color-primary">Undo Last Edit</span>
</button>
```
or move the class to the parent container and have both the icon and the text inherit the color :)
```diff
+ <button class="button is-small text-color-primary">
- <span class="icon"><i class="mdi mdi-undo color-primary"></i></span>
+ <span class="icon"><i class="mdi mdi-undo"></i></span>
- <span>Undo Last Edit</span>
</button>
```

#### SASS variables
A lot of SASS variables changed, we recommend you take a look at the [_variables.scss](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/blob/master/packages/common/src/styles/_variables.scss) file to compare with yours SASS overrides and fix any SASS build issues.

##### SASS `math` polyfills are removed
When Dart-SASS released their version 1.33, it caused a lot of console warnings (and lot of unhappy users) in projects that were using `/` (for math division) instead of their new `math.div` function. To avoid seeing all these warnings, I had created a temporary polyfill (that piece of code was actually copied from Bootstrap project). This change happened 3 years ago, so I'm assuming that most users have already upgraded their SASS and fix these warnings and I think it's time to remove this polyfill since it was always meant to be a temp patch. If you see these warnings coming back, you can use the SASS option `--quiet-upstream`.

For reference, below is an example of these old Math warnings when we used to compile it with SASS CLI

```sh
Recommendation: math.div($m, $columns)
More info and automated migrator: https://sass-lang.com/d/slash-div
╷
94 │ margin-right: $m / $columns * 100%
│ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

#### No more Font-Awesome references
Since this release now has pure CSS SVG icons, I decided to delete any Font-Awesome references (mostly in the Bootstrap Theme) because all the built-in icons are now all SVG icons (sort, grouping, row detail, row move, row selection) (you can change them using SASS). However, there are a few plugins that use external icons via CSS classes (mostly all menu plugins like Header Menu, Grid Menu, Content Menu, ...) and for that reason **all Styling Themes now include default SVG icons** (even the Bootstrap Theme). 

What if you want to use your own font/SVG library? In that case you can use the "lite" Themes and then make sure to update all the menu plugins with the correct CSS classes, for example the global grid options of the Grid Menu is now configured with the following (notice there's no more Font-Awesome "fa" icons reference):

```ts
// default global grid options
export const GlobalGridOptions = {
  gridMenu: {
    iconCssClass: 'mdi mdi-menu',
    iconClearAllFiltersCommand: 'mdi mdi-filter-remove-outline',
    iconClearAllSortingCommand: 'mdi mdi-sort-variant-off',
    iconClearFrozenColumnsCommand: 'mdi mdi-pin-off-outline',
    iconExportCsvCommand: 'mdi mdi-download',
    iconExportExcelCommand: 'mdi mdi-file-excel-outline',
    iconExportTextDelimitedCommand: 'mdi mdi-download',
    iconRefreshDatasetCommand: 'mdi mdi-sync',
    iconToggleDarkModeCommand: 'mdi mdi-brightness-4',
    iconToggleFilterCommand: 'mdi mdi-flip-vertical',
    iconTogglePreHeaderCommand: 'mdi mdi-flip-vertical',
  }
}
```

and here's the file size difference with the "lite" version

![image](https://github.com/ghiscoding/slickgrid-universal/assets/643976/0edc9962-d881-49d2-bc47-1f698213ad5e)

##### jQueryUI CSS class leftovers
There were a few `.ui-state-default` and other jQueryUI CSS classes leftovers in the core lib, they were all removed in this release. If you were querying any of them for styling purposes, you can simply rename them to `.slick-state-*`

```diff
- .ui-state-default, .ui-state-hover {
+ .slick-state-default, .slick-state-hover {
}
```

### Deprecated code removed/renamed
##### `getHTMLFromFragment()` removed
The function `getHTMLFromFragment()` was removed in favor of `getHtmlStringOutput()`, the new function will auto-detect if it's a DocumentFragment, an HTMLElement or an HTML string and will execute the appropriate action.

#### Formatters Cleanup & Removals

Since we now only use SVG and we got rid of any Font usage (no more Font-Awesome code anywhere), the `checkmark` Formatter no longer has any reason to exist and was removed. If you were using and still use Font-Awesome in your project, you'll have to either recreate the Formatter yourself or use alternatives. You could use the `Formatters.icon` or `Formatters.iconBoolean` which require the CSS classes to be provided via `params`. As a last alternative, and if you are importing the optional SVG icons `.mdi`, then we recommend you simply use the `checkmarkMaterial` Formatter.

```diff
this.columnDefinitions = [
  {
    id: 'isActive', name: 'Active', field: 'isActive',
-   formatter: Formatters.checkmark
+   formatter: Formatters.checkmarkMaterial
  },
];
```
or create a Custom Formatter

```ts
// create a custom Formatter and returning a string and/or an object of type FormatterResultObject
const myCheckmarkFormatter: Formatter = (row: number, cell: number, value: any, columnDef: Column, dataContext: any) => {
  const iconElm = document.createElement('i');
  iconElm.className = value ? 'mdi mdi-check' : '';
  return iconElm;

  // simple HTML string
  return value ? '<i class="mdi mdi-check"></i>' : '';
}
```

## Grid Functionalities

### Native Select Filter (removed)
I would be surprised if anyone uses the `Filters.select` and so it was removed, you should simply use the `Filters.singleSelect` or `Filters.multipleSelect`

```diff
prepareGrid() {
  this.columnDefinitions = [{
    id: 'isActive', name: 'Active', field: 'isActive',
    filter: {
-      model: Filters.select,
+      model: Filters.singleSelect,
       collection: [ { value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'true' }, { value: false, label: 'false' } ],
    }
  }];
}
```

### Date Editor/Filter
We migrated from Flatpicker to Vanilla-Calendar and this require some changes since the option names are different. The changes are the same for both the Filter and the Editor.

The biggest change that you will have to do is the min/max date setting when using the `'today'` shortcut as shown below:

```diff
- import { type FlatpickrOption } from '@slickgrid-universal/common';
+ import { type VanillaCalendarOption } from '@slickgrid-universal/common';

prepareGrid() {
  this.columnDefinitions = [{
    id: 'finish', name: 'Finish', field: 'finish',
    editor: {
      model: Editors.date,
-      editorOptions: { minDate: 'today' } as FlatpickrOption,
+      editorOptions: { range: { min: 'today' } } as VanillaCalendarOption,
    }
  }];
}
```

> **Note** the `'today'` shortcut currently only exist in `Vanilla-Calendar-Picker` fork, however the rest of the settings should be similar, visit `Vanilla-Calendar-Pro` [settings](https://vanilla-calendar.pro/docs/reference/additionally/settings) website for all other options. The hope is to drop the fork whenever the original project receives all missing features.

### Multiple-Select
Please note that in previous version we were re-exporting the `MultipleSelectOption` interface from the `Multiple-Select-Vanilla` library, however re-exporting is typically discouraged by the TypeScript team and so it was removed. The change is quite simple, you simply need to import the `MultipleSelectOption` interface from the `multiple-select-vanilla` external library.

```diff
- import { MultipleSelectOption } from '@slickgrid-universal/common';
+ import { MultipleSelectOption } from 'multiple-select-vanilla';

prepareGrid() {
  this.columnDefinitions = [{
    id: 'isActive', name: 'Active', field: 'isActive',
    editor: {
      model: Editors.singleSelect,
      collection: [ { value: '', label: '' }, { value: true, label: 'true' }, { value: false, label: 'false' } ],
      editorOptions: { maxHeight: 400 } as MultipleSelectOption
    }
  }];
}
```
